TLS update edit (#192)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/enable-inbound-traffic.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Runtime Fabric provides load balancing to manage inbound traffic to Mule applications and API proxies. Network traffic is balanced across multiple replicas of an application, which, by default, are deployed across different worker VMs.

Runtime Fabric can be shared across multiple environments. After installation, configure one or more environments for each Runtime Fabric to enable application deployment. You must associate at least one environment with each Runtime Fabric to be able to deploy Mule applications or API gateways.

> Applications deployed to a production environment must be deployed to an instance of Runtime Fabric that is separate from non-production applications.

Reviewer: nonproduction

By default, inbound traffic is disabled to prevent consuming unnecessary resources. To allow Mule applications or API gateways to listen on inbound connections, enable inbound traffic. Inbound traffic is disabled by default and must be manually enabled before inbound requests can be received by Mule applications and API gateways.

> == Step 1: Assign Required Roles and Permissions

Reviewer: We should not have to include "Step n:" at the beginning of these tasks if the process has been introduced as such. Simple task presentation order is based on the idea of the task series.

> Ensure you have the necessary permissions for the Runtime Fabric environment you want to use for applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin this task, ensure that your Runtime Fabric environment includes the permissions you need to use for applications.
```

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Access Management*.
+

> If you do not have access to Anypoint Access Management, request access from your system administrator.

Reviewer: I suggest adding this to the earlier prerequisite and making that a prerequisites list.

. Select *Users*.

> . Locate the row with your username and then select the blue link in the *Username* column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the row containing your username and then click the blue link in the *Username* column.
```

> . In the *Runtime Manager* tab, enable the *Manage Runtime Fabrics* permission for your Runtime Fabric environment.

Reviewer: How does the user enable this: by clicking or selecting some control?

+
[NOTE]

> It can take up to 5 minutes for any permissions you add to propagate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can take up to five minutes for any permissions you add to propagate.
```

> == Step 2: Configure Inbound Traffic Using Runtime Manager

Reviewer: DITTO comment about Step; GLOBAL

. Navigate to Runtime Manager and select *Runtime Fabric*.
. Select the name of your Runtime Fabric to open the management page.

> . In the *Associated Environments* tab, ensure your Runtime Fabric is associated with the environments in which applications are to be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Associated Environments* tab, ensure that your Runtime Fabric is associated with the environments in which applications are to be deployed.
```

> . Select *Inbound Traffic* and enable the *Enable inbound traffic* toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Inbound Traffic* and toggle the *Enable inbound traffic* to on.
```

+
[NOTE]

> If you disable the Inbound Traffic tab, changes can take several minutes to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you disable the Inbound Traffic tab, changes might take several minutes to become complete.
```

> . In the *Basic Configuration* section, verify *Secure Port* is set to `443` and *Non Secure Port* is set to `80`.  The nonsecure port redirects to the secure port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Basic Configuration* section, verify that *Secure Port* is set to `443` and that *Non Secure Port* is set to `80`.  
The nonsecure port redirects to the secure port.
```

> . Select *Resource Allocation*.

Reviewer: This step is at such a great distance from the step following it that I had to scroll up and down a few times to understand the information hierarchy.
Please create a JIRA for yourself to review the organization of this topic or topic set at some future time, keeping in mind that tasks should not include so much conceptual information nor comprise a complicated nested hierarchy.

+

> The number of inbound load balancer replicas is determined by the number of controller nodes configured in the RTF. A minimum of 2 replicas is required for production environments, and these replicas only run on the controller VMs. Refer to xref:manage-index.adoc[Manage Runtime Fabric] for detailed information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of inbound load balancer replicas is determined by the number of controller nodes configured in Runtime Fabric. A minimum of two replicas is required for production environments, and these replicas run only on the controller VMs. Refer to xref:manage-index.adoc[Manage Runtime Fabric] for detailed information.
```

+
*Shared Mode* is automatically selected for the ingress configuration if no dedicated mode is available.

> .. Specify the minimum number of cores for each replica of the internal load balancer. Note that Runtime Fabric can use up to the maximum number shown if they are available. Transport Layer Security (TLS) termination is computationally expensive, so make sure to allocate enough CPU to increase throughput and decrease latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Specify the minimum number of cores for each replica of the internal load balancer. 
Note that Runtime Fabric can use up to the maximum number shown if the cores are available. Transport Layer Security (TLS) termination is computationally expensive, so allocate enough CPU to increase throughput and decrease latency.
```

> .. Specify the minimum memory for each replica of the internal load balancer. Note that Runtime Fabric can use up to the maximum amount shown if it is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Specify the minimum memory for each replica of the internal load balancer. 
Note that Runtime Fabric can use up to the maximum amount shown if memory is available.
```

. Configure a TLS context.
+

> All inbound traffic entering Anypoint Runtime Fabric is encrypted using TLS. When enabling inbound traffic, you must provide a valid TLS certificate. Once enabled, HTTP requests sent to Runtime Fabric receive a `301` response to redirect to HTTPS on port 443.

Reviewer: Once > After
internationalization

+

> You can configure the private key and public certificate for a TLS-enabled server in one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the private key and public certificate for a TLS-enabled server by uploading either Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) or Java Keystore (JKS) files or, if you are an advanced user, by importing from secrets manager:
```

Reviewer: ...because the three options are at quite a textual distance from one another.
Again, I think this task is overloaded with conceptual info and too deeply nested.

> ** Option 1: *Upload PEM*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Upload PEM
```

+

> Use this option to upload a public certificate and private key in Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) format and use TLS default values. With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options. A PEM file is a Base64-encoded ASCII file with a `.cer`, `.crt`, or `.pem` extension. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for  information about TLS default values.

Reviewer: Two paras; consider omitting the second as ancillary to the task at hand:
```suggestion
Use this option to upload a public certificate and private key in Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) format and use TLS default values. With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options. 
A PEM file is a Base64-encoded ASCII file with a `.cer`, `.crt`, or `.pem` extension. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for  information about TLS default values.
```

+

> This is the default option when no TLS context exists for Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be mentioned at the outset of this text about the PEM option?

> ... Specify a *Certificate File*. When you specify a PEM public certificate file, the *Derived URL Format* field lists domains that are selectable for *Application url*, which is used for routing requests to an application. By default, the first domain listed is used. Other values can be selected via the *Applications->Ingress* page.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY restrict steps and other list items to one fragment or sentence max, with additional details, if necessary, in a para following:
```suggestion
... Specify a *Certificate File*. 
When you specify a PEM public certificate file, the *Derived URL Format* field lists domains that are selectable for *Application url*, which is used for routing requests to an application. By default, the first domain listed is used. Other values can be selected via the *Applications->Ingress* page.
```

+

> The certificate must be set with a passphrase and a common name (CN) that specifies the domain for each application deployed to Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: intentionally passive?
```suggestion
The certificate must be set with a passphrase and a common name (CN) that specifies the domain for each application deployed to Runtime Fabric:
```

**** If the CN contains a wildcard, the endpoint for each deployed application takes the form `{app-name}.{common-name}`.
**** If the CN does not contain a wildcard, the endpoint takes the form `{common-name}/{app-name}`.

> ... Specify a value for *Key File*. This is the PEM formatted file that contains the private key for the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Specify a value for *Key File*. 
This is the PEM-formatted file that contains the private key for the certificate.
```

... If the *Key Passcode* field is displayed after uploading a PEM key file, enter the word or phrase that protects the private key.

> ... Optionally, specify a value for *CA Path Certificate File (Optional)*. This is the certificate signed by a certification authority (CA). The CA path contains the intermediary and root certificates that are related to the certificate file you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Optionally, specify a value for *CA Path Certificate File (Optional)*. 
This is the certificate signed by a certification authority (CA). The CA path contains the intermediary and root certificates that are related to the certificate file you want to use.
```

> ... Select *Deploy*. The *Key Passcode* field is disabled. If you upload a new key file, the *Key Passcode* field is again enabled.

Reviewer: These levels of info nesting are not optimal.

+
The PEM file information is saved in the global secrets group for your organization.

> ** Option 2: *Upload JKS*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Upload JKS
```

+

> Use this option to upload a Java Keystore (JKS) file and use TLS default values. With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options. A JKS file is a repository for authorization or public key certificates and does not store secret keys. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for additional information.

Reviewer: DITTO two paras, the second not really necessary to the task focus:
```suggestion
Use this option to upload a Java Keystore (JKS) file and use TLS default values. With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options. 
A JKS file is a repository for authorization or public key certificates and does not store secret keys. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for additional information.
```

... Specify a value for *Keystore File*, the keystore file to use.
... Specify a value for *Keystore Passcode*, the word or phrase that protects the keystore.

> ... Specify a value for *Alias*. The alias is used to access the keystore entries (key and trusted certificate entries).

Reviewer: parallelism?
```suggestion
... Specify a value for *Alias*, used to access the keystore entries (key and trusted certificate entries).
```

+
[NOTE]
This field is enabled after you specify a keystore file and keystore passcode.

> ... In the  `Choose Alias From Keystore` window, select an alias. The following information is displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... In the  `Choose Alias From Keystore` window, select an alias. 
The following information is displayed:
```

> **** The URL format to be used for your apps, based on the certificate’s CN.

Reviewer: Not a sentence
```suggestion
**** The URL format to be used for your apps, based on the certificate’s CN
```

+

> The certificate must be set with a passphrase and a CN that specifies the domain for each application deployed to Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate must be set with a passphrase and a CN that specifies the domain for each application deployed to Runtime Fabric:
```

***** If the CN contains a wildcard, the endpoint for each deployed application takes the form `{app-name}.{common-name}`.

> ***** If the CN does not contain a wildcard, the endpoint takes the form `{common-name}/{app-name}`.

Reviewer: Five levels....

> **** The expiration date of the secret.

Reviewer: Not a sentence
```suggestion
**** The expiration date of the secret
```

... Specify a value for *Key Passcode*, the word or phrase that protects the private key.
+
[NOTE]
This field is enabled after you specify an alias.

> ... Make sure you have entered values for *Keystore File*, *Keystore Passcode*, *Alias*, and *Key Passcode* before continuing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Verify that you have entered values for *Keystore File*, *Keystore Passcode*, *Alias*, and *Key Passcode* before continuing.
```

> ... Select *Deploy*. The *Keystore Passcode* and *Key Passcode* fields are disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Select *Deploy*. 
The *Keystore Passcode* and *Key Passcode* fields are disabled:
```

**** If you select a different *Alias* value, the *Key Passcode* field is again enabled.
**** If you upload a new keystore file, the *Alias* and *Keystore Passcode* fields are again enabled and the *Alias* field contents are cleared.
+
The JKS file information is saved in the global secrets group for your organization.

> ** Option 3: *Import from Secrets Manager* (for advanced users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Import from Secrets Manager
```

+

> This option imports a TLS context from Secrets Manager, and supports advanced configuration such as creating a TLS context, mutual authentication, selecting ciphers, and selecting TLS versions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For use by advanced users only, this option imports a TLS context from secrets manager, and supports advanced configuration such as creating a TLS context, mutual authentication, selecting ciphers, and selecting TLS versions. 
```

+

> This option is automatically selected for Runtime Fabrics for which inbound traffic was enabled before the PEM and JKS upload options became available. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is automatically selected for instances of Runtime Fabric for which inbound traffic was enabled before the PEM and JKS upload options became available. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for instructions.
```

Reviewer: Consider moving this explanation to the beginning of the text for this option: that this used to be the only option but is now for advanced users only?

+

> To import a TLS context from Secrets Manager, you need additional Secrets Manager permissions. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::configure-tls-context-rtf-lb.adoc[Configure a TLS Context for Runtime Fabric Load Balancer] for additional information.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY lowercase secrets manager.

+
To generate key material for testing purposes and create a TLS context in Secrets Manager, follow the instructions provided in xref:anypoint-security::secret-group-add-tls-context.adoc[Generate a TLS Certificate for Testing].

. (Optional) Select Security Policies
+

> A security policy must be defined in Anypoint Security to be displayed as an option in *Security Policies*. To define a security policy in Anypoint Security, you must have the *Anypoint Security - Edge* entitlement for your Anypoint Platform account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A security policy must be defined in Anypoint Security to be displayed as an option in *Security Policies*. To define a security policy in Anypoint Security, you must have the Anypoint Security - Edge entitlement for your Anypoint Platform account.
```

Reviewer: BROKE EDIT HERE TO AVOID GITHUB CHOKE

Reviewer: RESUME

The values to configure here depend on your scenario:

> . Runtime Fabric is not deployed behind a load balancer. +

Reviewer: Bullet list...unless these are somehow chronological?
```suggestion
* Runtime Fabric is not deployed behind a load balancer. +
```

These values should not be configured.
+
*Source IP header name*: blank +
*Enable proxy protocol*: Unchecked

> . Runtime Fabric is deployed behind an AWS load balancer with a proxy protocol configured. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Runtime Fabric is deployed behind an AWS load balancer with a proxy protocol configured. +
```

|=== 

. (Optional) Configure Internal Load Balancer Logs
+
You can define the log levels for the internal load balancer. Runtime Fabric supports the following log levels, listed in descending order of verbosity:
+
** FATAL
** ERROR
** WARNING
** INFO
** VERBOSE
** DEBUG
** TRACE
+
The more verbose log levels, which include WARNING, INFO, VERBOSE, DEBUG, and TRACE, consume more CPU resources for each request. Consider this when adjusting the log level and allocating resources for the internal load balancer.
+

> By default, the activity across all IPs addresses behind your endpoint is logged. To help reduce CPU consumption when using more verbose log levels, add IP filters to only log-specific IP addresses. This feature also reduces the quantity of logs when debugging a connection for a specific or limited number of IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the activity across all IP addresses behind your endpoint is logged. To help reduce CPU consumption when using more verbose log levels, add IP filters to only log-specific IP addresses. This feature also reduces the number of logs when debugging a connection for a specific or limited number of IP addresses.
```

> 

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for "select" and reevaluate for use of "click," per our style reference.

.. From Anypoint Platform select *Runtime Manager*.
.. Select *Runtime Fabric*.
.. Select the *Inbound Traffic* tab, and then select *Logs*.
.. Select *Add Filter*.
.. In the *IP* field, enter a single IP address or subset of addresses using CIDR notation.
.. Select the log level to apply to this IP filter.
.. Select *OK*.

. Select *Deploy* to deploy the internal load balancer.
+
The deployment can take up to a minute to complete. If successful, a message is displayed. You can view the deployment status at the beginning of the page. When the status transitions to *Applied*, the internal load balancer is successfully deployed and inbound traffic is enabled.

> == Step 3: Verify that Inbound Traffic is Enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Verify That Inbound Traffic Is Enabled
```

> To resolve the CN of applications deployed on Runtime Fabric, DNS must be configured to map the CN to the IP address of the external load balancer or of each controller VM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the CN of applications deployed on Runtime Fabric, DNS must be configured to map the CN to the IP address of either the external load balancer or each controller VM. 
```

To test inbound traffic for applications before configuring DNS, send a request to the application using the IP address and a host header set to the domain.

The structure of the domain depends on whether a wildcard was used in the CN of your certificate, for example:

> * A CN with a wildcard (e.g. *.example.com) uses the following request header format: `Host: {app-name}.example.com`. Use the following cURL command for verification:

Reviewer: Do not use Latin abbr
```suggestion
* A CN with a wildcard (such as `.example.com`) uses the following request header format: `Host: {app-name}.example.com`. Use the following cURL command for verification:
```

+
----
curl -Lvk -XGET https://{ip-address}/{path} -H 'Host: {app-name}.example.com'
----

> * A CN without a wildcard (e.g. example.com) uses the following request header format: `Host: example.com`. Use the following cURL command for vierfication:

Reviewer: DITTO prev. edits just above

+
----
curl -Lvk -XGET https://{ip-address}/{app-name}/{path} -H 'Host: example.com'`
----

> == Step 4: Configure an External Load Balancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure an External Load Balancer
```

> After you enable inbound traffic, you must configure Runtime Fabric to route incoming traffic to each enabled application in order for clients to send requests to deployed applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you enable inbound traffic, you must configure Runtime Fabric to route incoming traffic to each enabled application for clients to send requests to deployed applications. 
```

> You must configure an external load balancer to load balance HTTPS traffic between each controller VM on Runtime Fabric. Controller VMs are virtual machines dedicated to run the components that power Anypoint Runtime Fabric. Each controller VM runs a replica of the internal load balancer and is configured to listen on port 443. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure an external load balancer to load balance HTTPS traffic between each controller VM on Runtime Fabric. Controller VMs are virtual machines dedicated to run the components that power Anypoint Runtime Fabric. Each controller VM runs a replica of the internal load balancer and is configured to listen on Port 443. 
```

=== External Load Balancer Requirements

> When running multiple controller VMs, you must have an external load balancer outside Runtime Fabric to front each of the controller VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running multiple controller VMs, you must have a load balancer outside Runtime Fabric to front each of the controller VMs.
```

> The external load balancer must support TCP load balancing and must be configured with a server pool containing the IP addresses of each controller VM. A health check must also be configured on the external load balancer, listening on port 443.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The external load balancer must support TCP load balancing and must be configured with a server pool containing the IP addresses of each controller VM. A health check must also be configured on the external load balancer, listening on Port 443.
```

Reviewer: Intentional passive voice? There is quite a bit of it in these topics. Just keep an eye on it!  :-)

This configuration of the external load balancer provides the following benefits:

* Maintains high availability.
* Protects against failures.
* Gracefully handles automated failover if a replica of the internal load balancer restarts or is evicted and rescheduled on another controller VM.

To configure an external load balancer:

. Review the information described in *Advanced Options* when adding an external load balancer.

> . Configure DNS before using the CN obtained from the TLS certificate. DNS is required to send requests to applications or API gateways deployed to Runtime Fabric. Add an "A record" to your DNS provider to map the CN to the IP address of the external load balancer or controller VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure DNS before using the CN obtained from the TLS certificate. DNS is required to send requests to applications or API gateways deployed to Runtime Fabric. Add an "A record" to your DNS provider to map the CN to the IP address of the external load balancer or controller VMs.
```
```suggestion
. Configure DNS before using the CN obtained from the TLS certificate. 
DNS is required to send requests to applications or API gateways deployed to Runtime Fabric. Add an "A record" to your DNS provider to map the CN to the IP address of the external load balancer or controller VMs.
```

> == Step 5: Deploy Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deploy Applications
```

When you are ready to deploy an application, follow the instructions in xref:deploy-to-runtime-fabric.adoc[Deploy a Mule Application to Runtime Fabric].

> The *Ingress* tab allows you to specify whether inbound traffic should be allowed for the application. After you enable inbound traffic, the default behavior is changed to allow for new application deployments. If there are applications deployed to Runtime Fabric before you enable inbound traffic, they do not receive inbound requests until this setting is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Ingress* tab enables you to specify whether inbound traffic should be allowed for the application. After you enable inbound traffic, the default behavior is changed to allow for new application deployments. If there are applications deployed to Runtime Fabric before you enable inbound traffic, they do not receive inbound requests until this setting is enabled.
```

== TLS Certificate Expiration

> Certificates (both self-signed and CA-signed) always have an expiration date. By default, certificates expire one year after they are created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both self-signed and CA-signed certificates always have an expiration date. By default, certificates expire one year after they are created. 
```

> The following warnings are displayed for certificates that will expire within 30 days to allow you to upload a new certificate-key pair before a certificate expires:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following warnings are displayed for certificates that will expire within 30 days so that you remember to upload a new certificate-key pair before a certificate expires:
```

> * On the *Runtime Fabrics* page, if a TLS certificate will expire within the next 30 days,`TLS Expiring` is displayed in the *Inbound traffic* column. On the `Runtime Fabrics` page, when a TLS certificate has expired, a warning is displayed in the *Inbound traffic* column for that RTF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the *Runtime Fabrics* page, if a TLS certificate will expire within the next 30 days,`TLS Expiring` is displayed in the *Inbound traffic* column. 
* On the `Runtime Fabrics` page, when a TLS certificate has expired, a warning is displayed in the *Inbound traffic* column for that RTF.
```

> * On the *Inbound Traffic tab, if a TLS certificate will expire within the next 30 days, a warning is displayed. When a TLS certificate has expired, the expiration date information includes a red warning in the *Certificate File* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the *Inbound Traffic* tab, if a TLS certificate will expire within the next 30 days, a warning is displayed. When a TLS certificate has expired, the expiration date information includes a red warning in the *Certificate File* field.
```
